---
permalink: /milestones
layout: page
title: Milestones
---

Here I provide a high level description of the functionality I am working towards. To set achievable goals, milestones will be rather small and the functionality I aim for may appear incomplete.

Domain Terms are shown in **bold**. For a list of _DDD terms_, see <https://www.dddcommunity.org/resources/ddd_terms/>.


## Current milestone (#1)

Create the Fix command line application that provides basic functionality for **issues**. As storage use a single JSON file, located in a `.fix` subdirectory of the working directory.

An **issue** is an _aggregate_ with the follwing _values_:

- The **title** is a string of restricted length (6-120 characters) and character set (alphanumeric, space, punctuation without backspace and backtick)
- The **description** is a unicode string, length theoretically unlimited (limited by storage format and other technical boundaries)
- The **issue ID** is a string that is set when the issue is created and can never be changed. To avoid conflicts when Fix is used with Git (see [here]({% link _pages/about.md %})), consecutive numbers can not be used. Instead, an issue ID has a special format `aaa-bbb-ccc-ddd-xxxxxxx`: four blocks of 2-3 alphanumeric characters each, and a block of 7 hexadecimal characters. Blocks are separated by hyphens.
- The **status** for now can have two possible values: `open` and `closed`

For this first milestone, I want to be able to do the following:

- **create** an **issue**: This _command_ creates a new **issue** and stores it in the **issue _repository_**. The **title** and **description** are parameters of the _command_, the **status** is `open`. The **issue ID** is generated by abbreviating the first four words of the title (if there are as many) and a hash of the title and description.
- **set** the **status**: This _command_ changes the status of an **issue** to one of the two allowed values (see above).
- **list** all existing **issues**: This _query_ shows a list (no specific order) of all **issues** with their **issue ID**, **titles**, and **status**. Titles may be abbreviated to fit on a single line.
- **show** a single **issue**: This _query_ shows the **title**, **status**, and **description** of the **issue** with the given **issue ID**


### Out of scope:
- deletion of issues is not that important for now
- editing of description and title should come soon, but not now
- explicitly setting the issue ID (or part of it) may be a desirable feature for some future milestone
- more fields for issues, like tags, comments, etc.
- more allowed values for status